README.md, before:

Beach Life
==========

By Aisha, Hafiz, Joe, Robi & Sophie

Fancy a quick dip in the sea or a nice romantic walk on the beach? Not sure where your nearest beach actually is? Fear no more for Beach Life is here. Your one-stop-shop for locating all beaches in England (other countries possibly coming soon), along with a forecast for your chosen beach for the next 7 days, as well as tide information so you'll never miss high or low tide again!

# How to use

````console
cd client
npm install
cd ../server
npm install
````

To run the server
````console
cd server
nodemon
````

To run the app
````console
cd client
npm start
````

# Testing
To run the unit tests on the back-end:
```terminal
cd server
npm test
```

To run the unit tests on the front-end:
```terminal
cd client
npm test
```

# Dependencies and APIs
The map is rendered using [TomTom's Map API](https://developer.tomtom.com/map-display-api/documentation/product-information/introduction). 

To get the information regarding high/low tides, we used the [Stormglass API](https://stormglass.io/). The free key that we used is limited to 10 calls a day, which was problematic for testing however the API was much easier to work with than the Admiralty Tidal API which we also came across. 

The weather information uses [Visual Crossing's Weather API](https://www.visualcrossing.com/weather-api).

The beaches is a CSV file we have loaded locally, which we found on [Environment Agency's Bathing Water website](https://environment.data.gov.uk/bwq/profiles/).

# Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.\
You may also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can't go back!**

If you aren't satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you're on your own.

You don't have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn't feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn't be useful if you couldn't customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting)

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size)

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app)

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration)

### Deployment

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment)

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify)

Commit message:

Adds info about tech used in project

README.md, after:

Beach Life
==========

By Aisha, Hafiz, Joe, Robi & Sophie

Fancy a quick dip in the sea or a nice romantic walk on the beach? Not sure where your nearest beach actually is? Fear no more for Beach Life is here. Your one-stop-shop for locating all beaches in England (other countries possibly coming soon), along with a forecast for your chosen beach for the next 7 days, as well as tide information so you'll never miss high or low tide again!

The project was built using the MERN tech stack. The database is connected to MongoDB Atlas via Mongoose. The front-end was built using React, the backend server uses Express and Node. 

We used Jest as the test framework as well as React Testing Library. 

# How to use

````console
cd client
npm install
cd ../server
npm install
````

To run the server
````console
cd server
nodemon
````

To run the app
````console
cd client
npm start
````

# Testing
To run the unit tests on the back-end:
```terminal
cd server
npm test
```

To run the unit tests on the front-end:
```terminal
cd client
npm test
```

# Dependencies and APIs
The map is rendered using [TomTom's Map API](https://developer.tomtom.com/map-display-api/documentation/product-information/introduction). 

To get the information regarding high/low tides, we used the [Stormglass API](https://stormglass.io/). The free key that we used is limited to 10 calls a day, which was problematic for testing however the API was much easier to work with than the Admiralty Tidal API which we also came across. 

The weather information uses [Visual Crossing's Weather API](https://www.visualcrossing.com/weather-api).

The beaches is a CSV file we have loaded locally, which we found on [Environment Agency's Bathing Water website](https://environment.data.gov.uk/bwq/profiles/).

# Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.\
You may also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can't go back!**

If you aren't satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you're on your own.

You don't have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn't feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn't be useful if you couldn't customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting)

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size)

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app)

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration)

### Deployment

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment)

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: [https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify)
